What issue lay at the heart of debate over the admission of Missouri as a state?
Slavery
Who benefits most from protective tariffs?
The nation's manufactures
What "Great Compromiser" helped defuse the crises over the admission of Missouri and the nullification of the Tariff of 1828?
Henry Clay
In the 1824 presidential election, Henry Clay, the Speaker of the House did what?
He ran for president.
Which tariff caused the nullification crisis?
the Tariff of Abominations
Which party was least supportive of the American System and particularly opposed the National Bank?
Democrats
Which presidential candidate used the slogan "Tippecanoe and Tyler too"?
William Henry Harrison
What famous road did the government build from Baltimore westward?
National road
During what brief war in 1832 did a group of Indians attempt to reclaim their land in northern Illinois?
Black Hawk War
During what long war did Indians resist American efforts to remove them from Florida?
Seminole War
What is the name for President Jackson's practice of rewarding his supporters with government offices?
Spoils system
What was not a major factor in the Panic of 1837?
the economic situation in Great Britain
The main issue that pulled the Whig Party together was opposition to?
Andrew Jackson
What was not a precedent introduced by the 1832 election?
a platform was issued and a national convention was held
What was a factor in the split between Andrew Jackson and John Calhoun?
the Nullification Crisis
What was not an aspect of the pageantry surrounding elections in 19th century American democracy?
the secret ballot
What was Andrew Jackson's nickname?
Old Hickory
Define "suffrage" as used in the sentence, "Suffrage was the 'the first mark of liberty, the only true badge of the freeman."?
the vote
By 1860 most states had eliminated _____from their voting requirements.
property restrictions
What was another name for the Republic of Texas?
Lone Star Republic
Which of the following was the most important reason that the Texas settlers decided to fight for independence?
A Mexican army invaded Texas.
Which campaign was won by an unusual army of explorers, armed settlers, marines, and cavalry?
California campaign
Which area was known as the "Bear Flag Republic"?
California
The capture of _______________ came last in the Mexican War.
Mexico City
What dispute was the immediate cause of the Mexican War?
Texas-Mexico border
